dev-docs/development.md, before:

# Development Notes

To build/install from sources do the following:
1. Install dependencies
2. Create codesign certificate in `Keychain Access.app`
3. Run one of the entry point scripts to build/install from sources

Feel free to report GitHub issues if something doesn't work for you

If you struggle to build AeroSpace locally, you can also refer to [builds in GitHub Actions](https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace/actions?query=branch%3Amain)

## 1. Install dependencies

1.  Install Xcode from App Store https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835
    I believe it will also install Swift.
2.  If you want to build shell completion, install rust, bash and fish
    -   Install Rust using rustup. https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
    -   `brew install bash fish`
3.  If you want to build man pages, install Ruby >= 3.0. I recommend using [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv).
    -   `rbenv install 3.3.4` (or whatever 3.x version)
    -   Install asciidoctor using Ruby `bundler`. `cd AeroSpace && bundler install`
4.  Install optional `xcbeautify` to make Xcode build logs readable. `brew install xcbeautify`

## 2. Create codesign certificate

If you want to run AeroSpace as App Bundle (AeroSpace.app) you need to create self-signed certificate that will be used to codesign AeroSpace.
Release artifact is build as App Bundle.
If you only plan to build the debug version of AeroSpace, you can run it from the terminal and custom certificate is not required.

1.  Open `Keychain Access.app`
2.  Menu -> `Keychain Access` -> `Certificate Assistance` -> `Create a Certificate...`
    -   Name: `aerospace-codesign-certificate`
    -   Identity Type: `Self-Signed Root`
    -   Certificate Type: `Code Signing`

## 3. Entry point scripts

**Debug build**
-   `build-debug.sh` - Build debug build to `.debug` dir.
-   `run-tests.sh` - Run tests.
-   `run-debug.sh` - Run AeroSpace.app debug build.
-   `run-cli.sh` - Run `aerospace` in CLI. Arguments are forwarded to `aerospace` binary.
-   `build-docs.sh` - Build the site and man pages to `.site` and `.man` dirs respectively.
-   `build-shell-completion.sh` - Build shell completion to `.shell-completion`.
    You can test that the completion works properly by sourcing the file `source ./.shell-completion/zsh/_aerospace`
-   `generate.sh` - Regenerate generated project files. `AeroSpace.xcodeproj` is generated, and some of the source files
    (the source files have `Generated` suffix in their names).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Debug build uses `~/.aerospace-debug.toml` instead of `~/.aerospace.toml`

**Release build**
- `build-release.sh` - Build release build to `.release` dir.
- `install-from-sources.sh` - Build from sources and install release build to `aerospace-dev` brew cask

## IDE

-   You can obviously [open the project in Xcode](#xcode).
-   You can use your editor of choice (Neovim, Vim, Emacs, Sublime, VS Code) by using [sourcekit-lsp LSP](https://github.com/apple/sourcekit-lsp).
    I only tested it in Neovim
-   AppCode. The initial codebase was written in AppCode and the IDE was pretty solid.
    But AppCode was unfortunately sunsetted, and it started falling apart.
    Last time I checked it, it didn't support Swift 5.9 features, and I couldn't make it reliably import the project.
    RIP

## Xcode

Even if you use LSP and another text editor, Xcode is still useful to attach debugger (though you can use `lldb` in CLI).

1.  To open the project in Xcode: File -> Open -> Choose `Package.swift` file instead of `AeroSpace.xcodeproj`.
    It's better to open `Package.swift`, because SPM project is more lightweight.
    `AeroSpace.xcodeproj` is only used in `*release*.sh` build scripts.
2.  After you opened the project in Xcode.
    Edit Scheme... -> Options -> Console -> Choose `Terminal`.
    This way Accessibility permission will be requested from Terminal.
    If you don't change Console to `Terminal`, Accessibility permission will be requested on every rebuild, because the debug binary is unsigned.

## Tips

- Use built-in "Accessibility Inspector.app" to inspect accessibility properties of windows
- Use [BetterDisplay 2](https://github.com/waydabber/BetterDisplay) to emulate several monitors
- You can use `script/clean-project.sh` to clean the project when something goes wrong.

Commit message:

install-from-sources.sh: install as AeroSpace-Dev.app
If we didn't separate those builds, macOS would re-request accessibility permission when users switch between "-Dev" and GitHub builds.
"-Dev" builds and GitHub builds differ only in the application name and App Bundle ID.

Related: https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace/issues/530

dev-docs/development.md, after:

# Development Notes

To build/install from sources do the following:
1. Install dependencies
2. Create codesign certificate in `Keychain Access.app`
3. Run one of the entry point scripts to build/install from sources

Feel free to report GitHub issues if something doesn't work for you

If you struggle to build AeroSpace locally, you can also refer to [builds in GitHub Actions](https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace/actions?query=branch%3Amain)

## Definitions

**SPM.** Swift package manager and Swift build tool. In other words, `swift` CLI tool

## 1. Install dependencies

1.  Install Xcode from App Store https://apps.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835
    I believe it will also install Swift.
2.  If you want to build shell completion, install rust, bash and fish
    -   Install Rust using rustup. https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install
    -   `brew install bash fish`
3.  If you want to build man pages, install Ruby >= 3.0. I recommend using [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv).
    -   `rbenv install 3.3.4` (or whatever 3.x version)
    -   Install asciidoctor using Ruby `bundler`. `cd AeroSpace && bundler install`
4.  Install optional `xcbeautify` to make Xcode build logs readable. `brew install xcbeautify`

## 2. Create codesign certificate

If you want to run AeroSpace as App Bundle (AeroSpace.app) you need to create self-signed certificate that will be used to codesign AeroSpace.
Release artifact is build as App Bundle.
If you only plan to build the debug version of AeroSpace, you can run it from the terminal and custom certificate is not required.

1.  Open `Keychain Access.app`
2.  Menu -> `Keychain Access` -> `Certificate Assistance` -> `Create a Certificate...`
    -   Name: `aerospace-codesign-certificate`
    -   Identity Type: `Self-Signed Root`
    -   Certificate Type: `Code Signing`

## 3. Entry point scripts

**Debug build**
-   `build-debug.sh` - Build debug build to `.debug` dir by using SPM. (Xcode is not involved)
-   `run-tests.sh` - Run tests.
-   `run-debug.sh` - Run AeroSpace.app debug build.
-   `run-cli.sh` - Run `aerospace` in CLI. Arguments are forwarded to `aerospace` binary.
-   `build-docs.sh` - Build the site and man pages to `.site` and `.man` dirs respectively.
-   `build-shell-completion.sh` - Build shell completion to `.shell-completion`.
    You can test that the completion works properly by sourcing the file `source ./.shell-completion/zsh/_aerospace`
-   `generate.sh` - Regenerate generated project files. `AeroSpace.xcodeproj` is generated, and some of the source files
    (the source files have `Generated` suffix in their names).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Debug build uses `~/.aerospace-debug.toml` instead of `~/.aerospace.toml`

**Release build**
-   `build-release.sh` - Build release build to `.release` dir by using Xcode.
-   `install-dev-from-sources.sh` - Build `AeroSpace-Dev.app` release build from sources and install it as `aerospace-dev` brew cask.
    Suffix "-Dev" is used to distinguish self-build **release** builds from **release** builds published to GitHub.
    Builds published to GitHub are signed by Nikita Bobko's private certificate.
    "-Dev" builds are signed by your local `aerospace-codesign-certificate`.
    If we didn't separate those builds, macOS would re-request accessibility permission when users switch between "-Dev" and GitHub builds.
    "-Dev" builds and GitHub builds differ only in the application name and App Bundle ID.
    If you want to build the release without "-Dev" suffix, you can use `./build-release.sh --configuration Release`, but be aware of the mentioned problem.

## IDE

-   You can obviously [open the project in Xcode](#xcode).
-   You can use your editor of choice (Neovim, Vim, Emacs, Sublime, VS Code) by using [sourcekit-lsp LSP](https://github.com/apple/sourcekit-lsp).
    I only tested it in Neovim
-   AppCode. The initial codebase was written in AppCode and the IDE was pretty solid.
    But AppCode was unfortunately sunsetted, and it started falling apart.
    Last time I checked it, it didn't support Swift 5.9 features, and I couldn't make it reliably import the project.
    RIP

## Xcode

Even if you use LSP and another text editor, Xcode is still useful to attach debugger (though you can use `lldb` in CLI).

1.  To open the project in Xcode: File -> Open -> Choose `Package.swift` file instead of `AeroSpace.xcodeproj`.
    It's better to open `Package.swift`, because SPM project is more lightweight.
    `AeroSpace.xcodeproj` is only used in `*release*.sh` build scripts.
2.  After you opened the project in Xcode.
    Edit Scheme... -> Options -> Console -> Choose `Terminal`.
    This way Accessibility permission will be requested from Terminal.
    If you don't change Console to `Terminal`, Accessibility permission will be requested on every rebuild, because the debug binary is unsigned.

## Tips

- Use built-in "Accessibility Inspector.app" to inspect accessibility properties of windows
- Use [BetterDisplay 2](https://github.com/waydabber/BetterDisplay) to emulate several monitors
- You can use `script/clean-project.sh` to clean the project when something goes wrong.
