docs/aerospace-list-windows.adoc, before:

= aerospace-list-windows(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
:manname: aerospace-list-windows
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Print windows that satisfy conditions
// end::purpose[]

== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace list-windows [-h|--help] (--workspace <workspace>...|--monitor <monitor>...)
                       [--monitor <monitor>...] [--workspace <workspace>...]
                       [--pid <pid>] [--app-id <app-id>]
aerospace list-windows [-h|--help] --all
aerospace list-windows [-h|--help] --focused

// end::synopsis[]

== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}

include::util/conditional-output-format-header.adoc[]

Output format is table with three columns:

. Window ID
. App name
. Window title

Output Example:

----
5010 | AppCode   | AeroSpace – aerospace-list-windows.adoc
5360 | AppCode   | Git - AeroSpace
2412 | Alacritty | /Users/bobko $ ta
5046 | Xcode     | AeroSpace — ListWorkspacesCommand.swift
----

include::util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help

include::util/all-monitors-option.adoc[]

--focused::
Print the focused window.
Please note that it is possible for no window to be in focus.
In that case, error is reported.

--workspace <workspaces>::
Filter results to only print windows that belong to specified workspaces.
`<workspaces>` is a comma-separated list of workspace names.
+
Possible values: +
+
. Workspace name
. `visible` is a special workspace name that represents currently visible workspaces
. `focused` is a special workspace name that represents currently focused workspace

include::util/monitor-option.adoc[]

--pid <pid>:: Filter results to only print windows that belong to the Application with specified `<pid>`
--app-id <app-id>:: Filter results to only print windows that belong to the Application with specified Bundle ID

// end::body[]

include::util/man-footer.adoc[]

Commit message:

Implement --format option for list-windows command
Related to: https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace/issues/16

docs/aerospace-list-windows.adoc, after:

= aerospace-list-windows(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
:manname: aerospace-list-windows
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Print windows that satisfy conditions
// end::purpose[]

== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace list-windows [-h|--help] (--workspace <workspace>...|--monitor <monitor>...)
                       [--monitor <monitor>...] [--workspace <workspace>...]
                       [--pid <pid>] [--app-id <app-id>] [--format <output-format>]
aerospace list-windows [-h|--help] --all [--format <output-format>]
aerospace list-windows [-h|--help] --focused [--format <output-format>]

// end::synopsis[]

== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}

include::util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help

include::util/all-monitors-option.adoc[]

--focused::
Print the focused window.
Please note that it is possible for no window to be in focus.
In that case, error is reported.

--workspace <workspaces>::
Filter results to only print windows that belong to specified workspaces.
`<workspaces>` is a comma-separated list of workspace names.
+
Possible values: +
+
. Workspace name
. `visible` is a special workspace name that represents currently visible workspaces
. `focused` is a special workspace name that represents currently focused workspace

include::util/monitor-option.adoc[]

--pid <pid>:: Filter results to only print windows that belong to the Application with specified `<pid>`
--app-id <app-id>:: Filter results to only print windows that belong to the Application with specified https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids[Bundle ID]
--format <output-format>::
Specify output format. See "Output Format" section for more details

include::util/conditional-output-format-header.adoc[]

Output format can be configured with optional `[--format <output-format>]` option.
`<output-format>` supports https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_interpolation[string interpolation].

If not specified, the default `<output-format>` is: +
`%{window-id}%{right-padding} | %{app-name}%{right-padding} | %{window-title}`

The following variables can be used inside `<output-format>`:

%{window-id}:: Number. Window unique ID
%{window-title}:: String. Window title
%{app-name}:: String. Application name
%{app-pid}:: Number. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Process_identifier[UNIX process identifier]
%{app-id}:: String. Application unique identifier. https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids[Bundle ID]
%{workspace}:: String. Name of the belonging workspace
%{monitor-id}:: Number. Sequential number of the belonging monitor
%{monitor-name}:: String. Name of the belonging monitor
%{right-padding}:: A special variable which expands with a minimum number of spaces required to form a right padding in the appropriate column
%{newline}:: Unicode U+000A newline symbol `\n`
%{tab}:: Unicode U+0009 tab symbol `\t`

// end::body[]

include::util/man-footer.adoc[]
