docs/aerospace-list-apps.adoc, before:

= aerospace-list-apps(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
:manname: aerospace-list-apps
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Print the list of running applications that appears in the Dock and may have a user interface
// end::purpose[]

// =========================================================== Synopsis
== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace list-apps [-h|--help] [--macos-native-hidden [no]] [--format <output-format>] [--count]

// end::synopsis[]

// =========================================================== Description
== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}

The command is useful to inspect list of applications to compose filter for xref:guide.adoc#on-window-detected-callback[on-window-detected callback]

// =========================================================== Options
include::util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help

--macos-native-hidden [no]::
Filter results to only print hidden applications.
`[no]` inverts the condition

--format <output-format>:: Specify output format. See "Output Format" section for more details.
Incompatible with `--count`

--count:: Output only the number of apps.
Incompatible with `--format`

// =========================================================== Output Format
include::util/conditional-output-format-header.adoc[]

Output format can be configured with optional `[--format <output-format>]` option.
`<output-format>` supports https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_interpolation[string interpolation].

If not specified, the default `<output-format>` is: +
`%{app-pid}%{right-padding} | %{app-bundle-id}%{right-padding} | %{app-name}`

The following variables can be used inside `<output-format>`:

%{app-bundle-id}:: String. Application unique identifier. https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids[Bundle ID]
%{app-name}:: String. Application name
%{app-pid}:: Number. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Process_identifier[UNIX process identifier]

%{right-padding}:: A special variable which expands with a minimum number of spaces required to form a right padding in the appropriate column
%{newline}:: Unicode U+000A newline symbol `\n`
%{tab}:: Unicode U+0009 tab symbol `\t`

// end::body[]

// =========================================================== Footer
include::util/man-footer.adoc[]

Commit message:

2/2 Add `--json` flag to `list-*` query commands
https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace/issues/577

docs/aerospace-list-apps.adoc, after:

= aerospace-list-apps(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
:manname: aerospace-list-apps
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Print the list of running applications that appears in the Dock and may have a user interface
// end::purpose[]

// =========================================================== Synopsis
== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace list-apps [-h|--help] [--macos-native-hidden [no]] [--format <output-format>] [--count] [--json]

// end::synopsis[]

// =========================================================== Description
== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}

The command is useful to inspect list of applications to compose filter for xref:guide.adoc#on-window-detected-callback[on-window-detected callback]

// =========================================================== Options
include::util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help

--macos-native-hidden [no]::
Filter results to only print hidden applications.
`[no]` inverts the condition

--format <output-format>:: Specify output format. See "Output Format" section for more details.
Incompatible with `--count`

--count:: Output only the number of apps.
Incompatible with: `--format`, `--json`

--json:: Output in JSON format.
Can be used in combination with `--format` to specify which data to include into the json.
Incompatible with `--count`

// =========================================================== Output Format
include::util/conditional-output-format-header.adoc[]

Output format can be configured with optional `[--format <output-format>]` option.
`<output-format>` supports https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_interpolation[string interpolation].

If not specified, the default `<output-format>` is: +
`%{app-pid}%{right-padding} | %{app-bundle-id}%{right-padding} | %{app-name}`

The following variables can be used inside `<output-format>`:

%{app-bundle-id}:: String. Application unique identifier. https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/bundle_ids[Bundle ID]
%{app-name}:: String. Application name
%{app-pid}:: Number. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Process_identifier[UNIX process identifier]

%{right-padding}:: A special variable which expands with a minimum number of spaces required to form a right padding in the appropriate column
%{newline}:: Unicode U+000A newline symbol `\n`
%{tab}:: Unicode U+0009 tab symbol `\t`

// end::body[]

// =========================================================== Footer
include::util/man-footer.adoc[]
