docs/aerospace-summon-workspace.adoc, before:

= aerospace-summon-workspace(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Move the requested workspace to the focused monitor.
// end::purpose[]
:manname: aerospace-summon-workspace

// =========================================================== Synopsis
== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace summon-workspace [-h|--help] [--fail-if-noop] <workspace>

// end::synopsis[]

// =========================================================== Description
== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}
The moved workspace becomes focused.
The behavior is identical to Xmonad.

The command makes sense only in multi-monitor setup.
In single monitor setup the command is identical to `workspace` command.

// =========================================================== Options
include::./util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help
--fail-if-noop:: Exit with non-zero exit code if the workspace already visible on the focused monitor.

// =========================================================== Arguments
include::./util/conditional-arguments-header.adoc[]

<workspace>:: The workspace to operate on.

// end::body[]

// =========================================================== Footer
include::util/man-footer.adoc[]

Commit message:

Add `--when-visible (focus|swap)` option to the summon-workspace command.
What should happen when the summoned workspace is visible on another monitor?
This option introduces a choice to either:

- `focus` the monitor on which the target workspace is already visible (the current behavior)
- `swap` the workspaces between the monitors, so that the summoned workspace appears on the focused monitor.

The default is `focus`, for backwards compatibility.

Ref: https://github.com/nikitabobko/AeroSpace/issues/603

docs/aerospace-summon-workspace.adoc, after:

= aerospace-summon-workspace(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Move the requested workspace to the focused monitor.
// end::purpose[]
:manname: aerospace-summon-workspace

// =========================================================== Synopsis
== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace summon-workspace [-h|--help] [--fail-if-noop] [--when-visible (focus|swap)] <workspace>

// end::synopsis[]

// =========================================================== Description
== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}
The moved workspace becomes focused.
The behavior is identical to Xmonad.

The command makes sense only in multi-monitor setup.
In single monitor setup the command is identical to `workspace` command.

// =========================================================== Options
include::./util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help
--fail-if-noop:: Exit with non-zero exit code if the workspace already visible on the focused monitor.

--when-visible <action>::
Defines the behavior if the workspace is already visible on another monitor.
`<action>` possible values: `(focus|swap)`. +
The default is: `focus`

// =========================================================== Arguments
include::./util/conditional-arguments-header.adoc[]

<workspace>:: The workspace to operate on.

// end::body[]

// =========================================================== Footer
include::util/man-footer.adoc[]
