docs/aerospace-debug-windows.adoc, before:

= aerospace-debug-windows(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
:manname: aerospace-debug-windows
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Interactive command to record Accessibility API debug information to create bug reports
// end::purpose[]

// =========================================================== Synopsis
== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace debug-windows [-h|--help]

// end::synopsis[]

// =========================================================== Description
== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}

Use this command output to report bug reports about incorrect windows handling
(e.g. some windows are floated when they shouldn't).

The intended usage is the following:

. Run the command to start the debug session recording
. Focus problematic window
. Run the command one more time to stop the debug session recording and print the results

`debug-windows` command is *not stable API*.
Please *don't rely on* the command existence and output format.
The only intended use case is to report bugs about incorrect windows handling.

// end::body[]

// =========================================================== Options
include::util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help

// =========================================================== Footer
include::util/man-footer.adoc[]

Commit message:

debug-windows command: accept --window-id flag

docs/aerospace-debug-windows.adoc, after:

= aerospace-debug-windows(1)
include::util/man-attributes.adoc[]
:manname: aerospace-debug-windows
// tag::purpose[]
:manpurpose: Interactive command to record Accessibility API debug information to create bug reports
// end::purpose[]

// =========================================================== Synopsis
== Synopsis
[verse]
// tag::synopsis[]
aerospace debug-windows [-h|--help]

// end::synopsis[]

// =========================================================== Description
== Description

// tag::body[]
{manpurpose}

Use this command output to report bug reports about incorrect windows handling
(e.g. some windows are floated when they shouldn't).

The intended usage is the following:

. Run the command to start the debug session recording
. Focus problematic window or make the window appear.
. Run the command one more time to stop the debug session recording and print the results

`debug-windows` command is *not stable API*.
Please *don't rely on* the command existence and output format.
The only intended use case is to report bugs about incorrect windows handling.

// =========================================================== Options
include::util/conditional-options-header.adoc[]

-h, --help:: Print help

--window-id <window-id>::
Print debug information of the specified window right away.
Usage of this flag disables interactive mode.

// end::body[]

// =========================================================== Footer
include::util/man-footer.adoc[]
