docs/goodness.adoc, before:

= AeroSpace Goodness
include::util/site-attributes.adoc[]

include::util/header.adoc[]

Do you have a cool automatization, AeroSpace integration, or workflow?
Feel free to open an issue or pull request to add it to this list!

[#move-by-dragging-any-part-of-the-window]
== Move windows by dragging any part of the window

[source,bash]
----
defaults write -g NSWindowShouldDragOnGesture YES
----

Now, you can move windows by holding `ctrl + cmd` and dragging any part of the window (not necessarily the window title)

[#disable-open-animations]
== Disable windows opening animations

Observable in Google Chrome

[source,bash]
----
defaults write -g NSAutomaticWindowAnimationsEnabled -bool false
----

[#use-trackpad-gestures-to-switch-workspaces]
== Use trackpad gestures to switch workspaces

You can use link:https://folivora.ai/[BetterTouchTool] to assign trackpad gestures to switch workspaces

The following commands focus next or previous workspaces on monitors where the mouse is located

[source,bash]
----
aerospace workspace "$(aerospace list-workspaces --on-monitors mouse --visible)" && aerospace workspace next

aerospace workspace "$(aerospace list-workspaces --on-monitors mouse --visible)" && aerospace workspace prev
----

[#show-aerospace-workspaces-in-sketchybar]
== Show AeroSpace workspaces in Sketchybar

For those of you who want to integrate AeroSpace workspace indicators into your link:https://github.com/FelixKratz/SketchyBar[Sketchybar].
You can use these scripts as a starting point.

[source,bash]
.~/.config/sketchybar/sketchybarrc
----
sketchybar --bar height=32 \
                 blur_radius=30 \
                 position=top \
                 sticky=off \
                 padding_left=10 \
                 padding_right=10 \
                 color=0x15ffffff

sketchybar --default padding_left=5 \
                     padding_right=5 \
                     label.padding_left=4 \
                     label.padding_right=4 \
                     icon.padding_left=4 \
                     icon.padding_right=4

sketchybar --add event aerospace_change_raw bobko.aerospace.focusedWorkspaceChanged \
    --add event aerospace_change \
    --add item ev left \
    --subscribe ev aerospace_change_raw \
    --set ev updates=on drawing=off \
             script='sketchybar --trigger aerospace_change AEROSPACE_FOCUSED="$(aerospace list-workspaces --focused)"'

for sid in $(aerospace list-workspaces --all); do
    sketchybar --add item space.$sid left \
        --subscribe space.$sid aerospace_change \
        --set space.$sid \
        background.color=0x44ffffff \
        background.corner_radius=5 \
        background.height=20 \
        background.drawing=off \
        label="$sid" \
        click_script="aerospace workspace $sid" \
        script="$CONFIG_DIR/plugins/aerospace.sh $sid"
done
----

[source,bash]
.~/.config/sketchybar/plugins/aerospace.sh
----
#!/usr/bin/env bash

# make sure it's executable with:
# chmod +x ~/.config/sketchybar/plugins/aerospace.sh

if [ "$1" = "$AEROSPACE_FOCUSED" ]; then
    sketchybar --set $NAME background.drawing=on
else
    sketchybar --set $NAME background.drawing=off
fi
----

[#popular-apps-ids]
== List of popular and built-in applications IDs

The list is useful to compose custom xref:guide.adoc#on-window-detected-callback[on-window-detected callback].

[cols="1,3"]
|===
|Application name|Application ID

|1Password|`com.1password.1password`
|Activity Monitor|`com.apple.ActivityMonitor`
|AirPort Utility|`com.apple.airport.airportutility`
|Alacritty|`org.alacritty`
|Android Studio|`com.google.android.studio`
|App Store|`com.apple.AppStore`
|AppCode|`com.jetbrains.AppCode`
|Arc Browser|`company.thebrowser.Browser`
|Audio MIDI Setup|`com.apple.audio.AudioMIDISetup`
|Automator|`com.apple.Automator`
|Battle.net|`net.battle.app`
|Books|`com.apple.iBooksX`
|Brave|`com.brave.Browser`
|CLion|`com.jetbrains.CLion`
|Calculator|`com.apple.calculator`
|Calendar|`com.apple.iCal`
|Chess|`com.apple.Chess`
|Clock|`com.apple.clock`
|ColorSync Utility|`com.apple.ColorSyncUtility`
|Console|`com.apple.Console`
|Contacts|`com.apple.AddressBook`
|Dictionary|`com.apple.Dictionary`
|Disk Utility|`com.apple.DiskUtility`
|Docker|`com.docker.docker`
|FaceTime|`com.apple.FaceTime`
|Find My|`com.apple.findmy`
|Finder|`com.apple.finder`
|Firefox|`org.mozilla.firefox`
|Freeform|`com.apple.freeform`
|GIMP|`org.gimp.gimp-2.10`
|Google Chrome|`com.google.Chrome`
|Grapher|`com.apple.grapher`
|Home|`com.apple.Home`
|Inkscape|`org.inkscape.Inkscape`
|IntelliJ IDEA Community|`com.jetbrains.intellij.ce`
|IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate|`com.jetbrains.intellij`
|Karabiner-Elements|`org.pqrs.Karabiner-Elements.Settings`
|Keychain Access|`com.apple.keychainaccess`
|Keynote|`com.apple.iWork.Keynote`
|Kitty|`net.kovidgoyal.kitty`
|Mail|`com.apple.mail`
|Maps|`com.apple.Maps`
|Marta|`org.yanex.marta`
|Messages|`com.apple.MobileSMS`
|Music|`com.apple.Music`
|Notes|`com.apple.Notes`
|Pages|`com.apple.iWork.Pages`
|Photo Booth|`com.apple.PhotoBooth`
|Photos|`com.apple.Photos`
|Podcasts|`com.apple.podcasts`
|Preview|`com.apple.Preview`
|PyCharm Community|`com.jetbrains.pycharm.ce`
|PyCharm Professional|`com.jetbrains.pycharm`
|QuickTime Player|`com.apple.QuickTimePlayerX`
|Reminders|`com.apple.reminders`
|Safari|`com.apple.Safari`
|Shortcuts|`com.apple.shortcuts`
|Slack|`com.tinyspeck.slackmacgap`
|Spotify|`com.spotify.client`
|Steam|`com.valvesoftware.steam`
|Stocks|`com.apple.stocks`
|Sublime Merge|`com.sublimemerge`
|Sublime Text|`com.sublimetext.4`
|System Settings|`com.apple.systempreferences`
|TV|`com.apple.TV`
|Telegram|`com.tdesktop.Telegram`
|Terminal|`com.apple.Terminal`
|TextEdit|`com.apple.TextEdit`
|Thunderbird|`org.mozilla.thunderbird`
|Time Machine|`com.apple.backup.launcher`
|Todoist|`com.todoist.mac.Todoist`
|Tor Browser|`org.torproject.torbrowser`
|Transmission|`org.m0k.transmission`
|VLC|`org.videolan.vlc`
|Visual Studio Code|`com.microsoft.VSCode`
|VoiceMemos|`com.apple.VoiceMemos`
|VoiceOver Utility|`com.apple.VoiceOverUtility`
|Weather|`com.apple.weather`
|WezTerm|`com.github.wez.wezterm`
|Xcode|`com.apple.dt.Xcode`
|iMovie|`com.apple.iMovieApp`
|iTerm2|`com.googlecode.iterm2`
|kdenlive|`org.kde.Kdenlive`

|===

Commit message:

Update goodness to include a link to JankyBorders.adoc

docs/goodness.adoc, after:

= AeroSpace Goodness
include::util/site-attributes.adoc[]

include::util/header.adoc[]

Do you have a cool automatization, AeroSpace integration, or workflow?
Feel free to open an issue or pull request to add it to this list!

[#move-by-dragging-any-part-of-the-window]
== Move windows by dragging any part of the window

[source,bash]
----
defaults write -g NSWindowShouldDragOnGesture YES
----

Now, you can move windows by holding `ctrl + cmd` and dragging any part of the window (not necessarily the window title)

[#highlight-active-inactive-windows-with-coloured-borders]
== Highlight Active/Inactive Windows With Coloured Borders

To show a coloured border round active and/or inactive windows you can use link:https://github.com/FelixKratz/JankyBorders[JankyBorders].

[#disable-open-animations]
== Disable windows opening animations

Observable in Google Chrome

[source,bash]
----
defaults write -g NSAutomaticWindowAnimationsEnabled -bool false
----

[#use-trackpad-gestures-to-switch-workspaces]
== Use trackpad gestures to switch workspaces

You can use link:https://folivora.ai/[BetterTouchTool] to assign trackpad gestures to switch workspaces

The following commands focus next or previous workspaces on monitors where the mouse is located

[source,bash]
----
aerospace workspace "$(aerospace list-workspaces --on-monitors mouse --visible)" && aerospace workspace next

aerospace workspace "$(aerospace list-workspaces --on-monitors mouse --visible)" && aerospace workspace prev
----

[#show-aerospace-workspaces-in-sketchybar]
== Show AeroSpace workspaces in Sketchybar

For those of you who want to integrate AeroSpace workspace indicators into your link:https://github.com/FelixKratz/SketchyBar[Sketchybar].
You can use these scripts as a starting point.

[source,bash]
.~/.config/sketchybar/sketchybarrc
----
sketchybar --bar height=32 \
                 blur_radius=30 \
                 position=top \
                 sticky=off \
                 padding_left=10 \
                 padding_right=10 \
                 color=0x15ffffff

sketchybar --default padding_left=5 \
                     padding_right=5 \
                     label.padding_left=4 \
                     label.padding_right=4 \
                     icon.padding_left=4 \
                     icon.padding_right=4

sketchybar --add event aerospace_change_raw bobko.aerospace.focusedWorkspaceChanged \
    --add event aerospace_change \
    --add item ev left \
    --subscribe ev aerospace_change_raw \
    --set ev updates=on drawing=off \
             script='sketchybar --trigger aerospace_change AEROSPACE_FOCUSED="$(aerospace list-workspaces --focused)"'

for sid in $(aerospace list-workspaces --all); do
    sketchybar --add item space.$sid left \
        --subscribe space.$sid aerospace_change \
        --set space.$sid \
        background.color=0x44ffffff \
        background.corner_radius=5 \
        background.height=20 \
        background.drawing=off \
        label="$sid" \
        click_script="aerospace workspace $sid" \
        script="$CONFIG_DIR/plugins/aerospace.sh $sid"
done
----

[source,bash]
.~/.config/sketchybar/plugins/aerospace.sh
----
#!/usr/bin/env bash

# make sure it's executable with:
# chmod +x ~/.config/sketchybar/plugins/aerospace.sh

if [ "$1" = "$AEROSPACE_FOCUSED" ]; then
    sketchybar --set $NAME background.drawing=on
else
    sketchybar --set $NAME background.drawing=off
fi
----

[#popular-apps-ids]
== List of popular and built-in applications IDs

The list is useful to compose custom xref:guide.adoc#on-window-detected-callback[on-window-detected callback].

[cols="1,3"]
|===
|Application name|Application ID

|1Password|`com.1password.1password`
|Activity Monitor|`com.apple.ActivityMonitor`
|AirPort Utility|`com.apple.airport.airportutility`
|Alacritty|`org.alacritty`
|Android Studio|`com.google.android.studio`
|App Store|`com.apple.AppStore`
|AppCode|`com.jetbrains.AppCode`
|Arc Browser|`company.thebrowser.Browser`
|Audio MIDI Setup|`com.apple.audio.AudioMIDISetup`
|Automator|`com.apple.Automator`
|Battle.net|`net.battle.app`
|Books|`com.apple.iBooksX`
|Brave|`com.brave.Browser`
|CLion|`com.jetbrains.CLion`
|Calculator|`com.apple.calculator`
|Calendar|`com.apple.iCal`
|Chess|`com.apple.Chess`
|Clock|`com.apple.clock`
|ColorSync Utility|`com.apple.ColorSyncUtility`
|Console|`com.apple.Console`
|Contacts|`com.apple.AddressBook`
|Dictionary|`com.apple.Dictionary`
|Disk Utility|`com.apple.DiskUtility`
|Docker|`com.docker.docker`
|FaceTime|`com.apple.FaceTime`
|Find My|`com.apple.findmy`
|Finder|`com.apple.finder`
|Firefox|`org.mozilla.firefox`
|Freeform|`com.apple.freeform`
|GIMP|`org.gimp.gimp-2.10`
|Google Chrome|`com.google.Chrome`
|Grapher|`com.apple.grapher`
|Home|`com.apple.Home`
|Inkscape|`org.inkscape.Inkscape`
|IntelliJ IDEA Community|`com.jetbrains.intellij.ce`
|IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate|`com.jetbrains.intellij`
|Karabiner-Elements|`org.pqrs.Karabiner-Elements.Settings`
|Keychain Access|`com.apple.keychainaccess`
|Keynote|`com.apple.iWork.Keynote`
|Kitty|`net.kovidgoyal.kitty`
|Mail|`com.apple.mail`
|Maps|`com.apple.Maps`
|Marta|`org.yanex.marta`
|Messages|`com.apple.MobileSMS`
|Music|`com.apple.Music`
|Notes|`com.apple.Notes`
|Pages|`com.apple.iWork.Pages`
|Photo Booth|`com.apple.PhotoBooth`
|Photos|`com.apple.Photos`
|Podcasts|`com.apple.podcasts`
|Preview|`com.apple.Preview`
|PyCharm Community|`com.jetbrains.pycharm.ce`
|PyCharm Professional|`com.jetbrains.pycharm`
|QuickTime Player|`com.apple.QuickTimePlayerX`
|Reminders|`com.apple.reminders`
|Safari|`com.apple.Safari`
|Shortcuts|`com.apple.shortcuts`
|Slack|`com.tinyspeck.slackmacgap`
|Spotify|`com.spotify.client`
|Steam|`com.valvesoftware.steam`
|Stocks|`com.apple.stocks`
|Sublime Merge|`com.sublimemerge`
|Sublime Text|`com.sublimetext.4`
|System Settings|`com.apple.systempreferences`
|TV|`com.apple.TV`
|Telegram|`com.tdesktop.Telegram`
|Terminal|`com.apple.Terminal`
|TextEdit|`com.apple.TextEdit`
|Thunderbird|`org.mozilla.thunderbird`
|Time Machine|`com.apple.backup.launcher`
|Todoist|`com.todoist.mac.Todoist`
|Tor Browser|`org.torproject.torbrowser`
|Transmission|`org.m0k.transmission`
|VLC|`org.videolan.vlc`
|Visual Studio Code|`com.microsoft.VSCode`
|VoiceMemos|`com.apple.VoiceMemos`
|VoiceOver Utility|`com.apple.VoiceOverUtility`
|Weather|`com.apple.weather`
|WezTerm|`com.github.wez.wezterm`
|Xcode|`com.apple.dt.Xcode`
|iMovie|`com.apple.iMovieApp`
|iTerm2|`com.googlecode.iterm2`
|kdenlive|`org.kde.Kdenlive`

|===
